this is my antique corn sheller here
since it's pretty old put the corn in
the top here cops come out here Carl's
come out down there the old hand-crank i
made a new wooden handle because the dog
was gone it's a right-handed improved
borough corn sheller made by the
Gulden's manufacturing company seneca
falls new york they also our fans for
making water pumps and something stuff
like that I have a cold water pump it
was patented March 14 1863 and this is a
number two so that's born and if I can
find a good camera angle let me just I
mean it to hold Oh we'll see we can do
let me just get involved in here just
oiled it
we got it jammed up Lhota here but you
got you got to see it going this thing
works pretty good right
not an easy machine to work
single-handedly but you just saw it it
works pretty good things probably been
in the family since since it was
practically new I imagined I don't think
it was new and my great-grandfather got
it he wasn't around 1963 but I don't
even know your this thing is it may be
newer than that by a few years but after
i oiled it boy he'll spin for quite some
time it works pretty good I don't use it
very often though it's all cast iron
Thwaites fun on how much it weighs
probably 100 pounds or 200 pounds let my
dad's insane so there you got to see my
corn sheller work you got to see me
feeding cops down in there have to see
shooting the kernels out there and the
cops out the corn kernels shooting at
the side of it right here use a little
hole so until next time this is just a
short video showing how Michael Oren
shoulder here works down in here
hopefully you can say that will see
their gears and stuff when you're a corn
in there closes in their ear okay you
can see just got picked up by the
mechanism now it's just not spinning
right now otherwise we've been doing
this so right here this is a spring what
happen is it pushes the corn up against
there's this one special gear here it's
got teeth in it that pulls it in and you
can see the spiked wheel right here
comes all the way up what happens is
when it gets spinning you can actually
see the ear coordinator being pulled in
at the same time they pulled in it's
spinning around and what happens is will
hear all the teeth rubs up against it
knocks all the colonel loose and once it
gets all the colonel off ear corn crops
down in and then pushed back up
and come right out sometimes your feed
another here in there and that and there
you have it that is how my phone showers
maybe someday I'll make a video this
little boat engine right here with this
original clutch but not its original
propeller don't know if it runs yet